---
author: admin
date: '2005-06-06 10:01:00'
layout: post
slug: mac-os-x86
status: publish
title: Mac OS X86?
wordpress_id: '67'
categories:
- Mac
- Software
---

Wow, this is a bit of a shocker: [Apple to Use Intel Microprocessors
Beginning in
2006](http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2005/jun/06intel.html). This rumor
has been floating around the web for a while now and thus far I've
chosen to ignore it since I, mistakenly, thought that it was false. But
Steve just confirmed it at his [WWDC](http://developer.apple.com/wwdc/)
keynote. Personally, I'm not too happy about the switch, but if [Leander
Kahney](http://wiredblogs.tripod.com/cultofmac/index.blog?entry_id=1125226)
is right then this could be a good thing for Apple.
Now that I think of it, more folks with Mac OS X installed will be much
better for all of us -- though with Apple presenting a bigger target to
the virus writers and haxors, they'll need to continue to focus on
security. Obviously, Apple doesn't want to see their HW revenues dry-up,
so I suspect that Mac OS X86 will only run on Apple HW (it's just that
the Apple HW will have an Intel CPU inside instead of a PowerPC one).
Thanks to NextStep's support for fat binaries (the executables for
multiple platforms stored in a single bundle), Mac OS X applications
will have a single instance which runs on both PPC and x86, making it
easier on Apple's current customers (not sure yet how troublesome this
will be for developers -- Steve says that XCode will take care of it).
Overall, this could be a monumental mistake or an amazing (and risky)
gamble for Apple. I guess we'll just have to wait and see. Interestingly
enough, Apple's stock is only slightly down after the announcement;
atleast the investors aren't spooked by the switch.
